Q1 - How do you handle a heavy workload?

Sometimes I'll find myself in situations where multiple projects or tasks overlap, sometimes in combination with routine daily tasks. This often results in a heavy workload which can lead to missed deadlines or lower quality work. In a situation like this, the first steps I'd take would be to quickly organize and prioritize the work at hand. Once I have a clear picture of what needs to be done, I can communicate with my manager to offset some work with additional help or increase deadlines to allow time for my high priority tasks to be completed to a quality standard. This often results in the most efficient way to work through a heavy workload while not being overly rushed. Even in worst case scenarios this methodology will at the very least make sure my manager is aware of my workload and we are aligned on my priorities.

Q2 - How should you handle a difficult team member?

It's not too uncommon a situation to have to deal with someone being difficult whether it be a client, customer, or colleague. In all situations I find it critical that I maintain a sense of professionally regardless of the situation. I'm going to prioritize  trying to deescalate arguments, calm the situation, and try and understand where the difficult person is coming from. With their perspective in mind it becomes much easier for me to cooperate with them and still progress towards our shared objectives. If the person in question becomes to detrimental to the teams productivity, it might become necessary to escalate to a manager or HR. Ultimately it should always be the goal to interpersonally work things out between each other through compromise and understanding to create an effective workspace and team.

Q3 - How do you handle a particularly difficult task?

Projects can often lead to complex or difficult tasks that become unwieldy and overwhelming. The first steps for me is to identify any major knowledge gaps that would prevent me from understanding key aspects of the task. Sometimes this might require asking experienced team members for advice. This is often an overlooked step as I believe many people naturally want to immediately tackle as much as they can within their understanding but down the road it could lead to "tech debt" or restructuring that could have been avoided if the task was properly understood. Breaking a task apart into smaller tasks often makes it easier too, allowing me to slowly tackle more approachable sub-tasks piece by piece. These smaller tasks can furthermore be distributed to other team members in situations where working alone in not feasible.

Q4 - How do you handle disagreements on a project?

Disagreements can come up during the course of a project. In a situation where I might not like a team members approach to a project the first thing I would do is try and ask them questions to understand their perspective on why they approach the project that particular way. In some cases my disagreements could be immediately resolved by learning of something I didn't know before. Other times it enables me an opportunity to share my knowledge and understanding to convince them of my approach. Through this discourse the majority of disagreements can be resolved with either person's approach, or in some cases just enable both parties to have a better understanding of the other perspective and hopefully work towards a healthy compromise.

Q5 - How do you handle a project not going according to plan?

Delays, mismanagement, or cross-team dependencies are a few of many possible ways a project wont end up going according to plan. In any case, its my responsibility to be adaptable and overcome any new challenges I encounter to the best of my ability. In the situation where something catastrophic happens or events that could lead to delays in project deliverables, its very important to notify the manager and PM as soon as possible to ask for guidance and avoid an unpleasant surprise as much as possible. Additionally, I should try my best to create guardrails to prevent a future similar issue, that might be making a plan, eliminating dependencies, or whatever the situation calls for. In some cases the problem was entirely out of my control and I should focus on damage mitigation to the best of my ability. Ultimately, I must try to make the best of the situation.

Q6 - How do you handle a large increase of project scope?

Project scope increases can be devastating to a project if not handled properly. The first and most important task is to reprioritize the work in the context of the new scope, oftentimes its necessary to cut back on certain features or set aside low priority items for the sake of delivering on time. Expectations should also be set that project timelines will likely need to be increased or more resources allocated to be fully completed within the original projected timeline. Eventually it will come down to making the most of whats resources are available while focusing on the core functionality.

Q7 - How do you approach a task with limited to no experience with it?

At some point, everyone is nearly guaranteed to come across a task that requires knowledge or experience that they lack, especially in the constantly evolving tech environment we're in today. The method I find to be the most helpful in professionally executing the unfamiliar task is to conduct preliminary research online to get a solid baseline understanding, then to ask my experienced colleagues for a small-scale demonstration or to provide the specific details of the process as it relates to the company policies and procedures. This in combination with some trail and error is usually my quickest path to understanding, It's very important get some validation from colleagues to catch any mistakes before finalizing my work. Through repetition, I'll gain the experience to work through the similar tasks without coworker dependence.

Q8 - How do you go about describing complex ideas to non-technical colleague or client?

We're not always going to working with technical developers on projects, there's a lot of other roles that get involved in projects and they might not have the same level of understanding around certain technical topics. While collaborating with someone without a technical background I implement a few tricks to effectively communicate complex technical ideas to them. I oftentimes find myself using analogies to relate the topic to more familiar concepts. Also, I ensure to strip any unnecessary technical language from my explanation as well as focus on a high-level perspective of the topic. With these techniques I can quickly get across the key ideas to a colleague of any level of technical understanding.

Q9 - How do you handle critical feedback?

Mistakes can happen, it's important to be able to accept feedback even when its not always positive. In the majority of cases in a professional environment critical feedback is not personally motivated, its often just a reflection of your work or actions. It's necessary to be humble by accepting and reflecting on the feedback and seek to apply remedies as necessary in order to change critical feedback into a positive action or habit going forward. Oftentimes, critical feedback should lead to a positive change for the better within myself to improve the quality of my work.

Q10 - How do you ensure project completion in an efficient manner?

There's an endless trove of techniques people use to maintain efficiency while delivering a project, equally so there are many pitfalls that can tank efficiency. From the wider project perspective I'd say the most effective way to stay efficient is to stay organized, especially for projects with many assigned workers. I also find very efficient to maintain my own documentation for the project to keep a record of important details, deadlines, requirements, etc. This eliminates the need for me to clarify details multiple times and keeps me on track. Agile techniques are a great way to keep the team aligned and provides many great options for organizing project information. With this all in mind, my life becomes much easier when it comes to staying efficient.